#summary How to install and setup Parsley - For users and developers
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy
= Introduction =
Welcome to Parsley! This wiki page provides information how to install and setup Parsley on a PC - for users and developers. If Parsley is new to you, we recommend to work through the _Getting Started Tutorial_ below. 

Subsequent to the installation tutorial, the first steps how to configure Parsley, in order to obtain satisfying scanning results, are explained on this page.

= Parsley Hardware setup =


= Installation tutorial for Parsley Users =
This sub paragraph deals with the installation of the Parsley, based on compiled binary files for common users.
Before installing Parsley, make sure that your computer system fulfills the following requirements:
 * Parsley is designed for Windows operating systems.
 * Install the _Microsoft .Net Framework 3.5 Service Pack 1_ - download from the [http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/en/default.aspx MicrosoftDownloadCenter].
 * Install the _Microsoft 2008 Redistributable Package (x86) Service Pack 1_ - available at [http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/en/default.aspx MicrosoftDownloadCenter].

After installing these software packages successfully, download the Parsley 0.2 binaries, which are available as ZIP file, from the Parsley [http://code.google.com/p/parsley/downloads/list Downloads] page.
Now, create a folder on the Windows partition (e.g. C:\Programs\Parsley\) and extract the contents of the ZIP file into the folder.
Your newly created Parsley folder should now contain several *dll* files, the *Parsley executable* (Parsley.exe) and a folder called *Patterns*, containing _Marker Images_ and different pdf files with *!CalibrationPatterns* ready for printing.

If your Parsley installation has been successful, the Parsley _Welcome Window_ should appear soon after the executable file has been started.

= Installation tutorial for Parsley Developers =
Parsley users who intend making source code changes and to further the development of Parsley, shall find information, how to build Parsley using the _Microsoft Visual Studio 2008_ development environment, below.

Firstly, make sure that _Microsoft Visual Studio 2008_, supporting C# and C++, is installed on your computer system.
Secondly, use a subversion client to check out the source code into a specified folder (e.g. C:\!ProgramFiles\Parsley). Please find more information regarding the source check out and the repository address on page [http://code.google.com/p/parsley/source/checkout Source].

Thirdly, after checking out the source code, you need to download the *!ThirdPartyLibraries* from the Parsley [http://code.google.com/p/parsley/downloads/list Download] page and include them into the Parsley project:
 * Create a folder named _!ThirdParty_ in the Parsley project directory, where you have already checked out the source code into.
 * Download the *!ThirdPartyLibraries* ZIP file and extract the contents into the folder _!ThirdParty_.
 * Open the folder and run the script file. Now the needed library files will be copied into the corresponding project folders.

As you can see, the Parsley project folder already contains _Visual Studio Solution_- and _Project_ files. By double-clicking the solution file, the Parsley project will be imported automatically into the development environment.
Observe, that Parsley consists of several C# sub projects and one C++ sub project, named *Draw3D*. Before you try to build Parsley firstly, make sure that you have chosen the *Solution Platform* _X86_. You can also enclose *debug information* by changing the *Solution Configuration* to _Debug_. For more detailed information open the _!ConfigurationManager_.

Due to existing sub project *dependencies* try to build Parsley according to the building sequence below:
 